10th Grade SAT Vocabulary List 1-10
    1. aberration; noun - deviating from the right path or usual course of action; a mental disorder, especially of a minor or temporary nature. We were convinced that Ed’s poor test marks were an aberration, and that he would do better the next time.

2. Belittle; verb - to make something seem less important. The purpose of much campaign oratory is to belittle your opponent’s record.3. cache; noun - a hiding place; something hidden in a hiding place. Police searched in vain for the cache of jewels which the thieves had skillfully concealed.

    4. Dearth; noun - shortage. The dearth of citrus fruits led to a host of illnesses.5. ebb; verb - to decline. Investors watched their fortunes ebb as the stock market plunged to a new low.
6. facilitate; verb - to make easy; to bring about. To facilitate our move, the company sent a crew to crate all of the furniture.
    7. galvanize; verb - to arouse suddenly; to startle. It took a mishap at Chernobyl to galvanize the peace movement into protesting vigorously.
    8. hackneyed; adjective - used too often; trite; commonplace. Creative writers cringe when they hear egregiously hackneyed expressions.9. Iconoclast; noun - a person who attacks cherished beliefs or established institutions. When she shook up the conservative firm, Gloria earned the reputation of being an iconoclast.10. jargon; noun - the specialized vocabulary of members of a group. The club members adopted a jargon that made them feel exclusive.
    11. kindle; verb - to ignite; to arouse or inspire; to catch fire; to become aroused. With the wind blowing furiously, Ted found it difficult to kindle a fire.

    12. labyrinth; noun- a maze; a complicated, perplexing arrangement or course of affairs. Once inside the cave, the searchers were confronted with a labyrinth that defied them to find the route to the wounded explorer.

    13. malicious; adjective- spiteful; intentionally mischievous or harmful. The malicious man led the widow through a labyrinth of schemes to deprive her of her fortune.14. nomenclature; noun - a systematic naming in an art or science. The nomenclature can be quickly mastered by using memory devices.
15. obliterate; verb - to blot out leaving no traces; to destroy. The authorities feared that the heavy rain would obliterate all signs of the escaped prisoner.
SAT vocabulary List 2-10
1. Abstinence; noun - the giving up of certain pleasures such as food or drink. Myra’s abstinence from cake, candy, and ice cream led to a dramatic weight loss.2. Bequeath; verb - to leave money or property by a will; to pass along. The austere, old tightwad would not bequeath even one penny to charity.

3. cacophony; noun- discord; harsh sound. While we sought harmony, our enemies were pleased with cacophony.
4. debilitate; verb - to weaken. The cruel jailer starved his prisoners in order to debilitate them.5. eclectic; adjective - consisting of selections from various sources. With an eclectic interest in books, Sheila collected everything from Shakespeare to Superman.
6. fallacy; noun - false idea; mistaken belief. The economist revealed the fallacy in the government’s proposal.
7. garbled; adjective - confused; mixed up. The garbled message failed to facilitate the ambulance’s arrival.8. haphazard; adjective - not planned; random. Taking haphazard aim, the hunter committed a fatal error.
9. immaterial; adjective - insignificant; unimportant. The prosecutor objected to the attorney’s exhibit, disparaging it as amateurish and immaterial.
10. judicious; adjective - wise; careful; showing sound judgment; prudent. Gary thought it more judicious to speak to his mother rather than his father about extending his curfew.
11. lackluster; adjective - lacking brightness; dull; lacking liveliness, vitality, or enthusiasm. His lackluster response to our suggestions made us lose our initial enthusiasm.
12. marred; verb - injured; spoiled; damaged; disfigured.
The fight in the corridor marred Lorna’s otherwise perfect record as a model student.
13. nonchalance; noun - carelessness; lack of interest or concern. Edward’s nonchalance about his studies made it difficult to lampoon him about his poor showing in the midterm exams.
14. obscure; adjective - not clear or distinct; hidden; remote;not well known. Far from the welltraveled highway was an obscure village that seemed to belong to another age.
15. painstaking; adjective - very careful, diligent. Researchers are engaged in a painstaking effort to find a vaccine against the AIDS virus.   
SAT Vocabulary List 3-10
1. abstract; adjective - theoretical, not applied or practical; not concrete; hard to understand. I prefer realistic art to abstract paintings, which are totally confusing to me.
2. bizarre; adjective - strikingly odd in appearance or style; grotesque. The beggar’s bizarre street behavior alerted the police to question her.
3. cajole; verb - to persuade by pleasant words or false promises. First he tried to cajol the witness into testifying; then he used threats.
4. decadence; noun - decay; decline. Many sermons tend to focus on the moral decadence in our time.

5. efface; verb - to wipe out; to erase. A devious attempt to efface the signature didn’t fool the bank teller.
6. fastidious; adjective - hard to please; dainty in taste. Everett was so fastidious that his messy fraternity brothers refused to room with him.
7. garner; verb - to gather and store away; to collect. By paying close attention, you may be able to garner some information will elucidate the situation.

8. hedonist; noun - one who lives solely for pleasure. Abandoning her lifestyle as a hedonist, Maria entered a convent.

9. imminent; adjective - about to occur. The ominous clouds told us that a storm was imminent.
10.  laconic; adjective - brief or terse in speech; using few words. The tense situation called for a laconic reply, not a lengthy exposition.
11. meager; adjective - thin; lean; of poor quality or small amount. The visiting team lampooned the meager dinner served by their hosts.

12. obsolete; adjective - out-of-date. Propeller planes have become obsolete.

13. pariah; noun - an outcast. The Western mind finds it difficult to accept the idea of a pariah class.
14. quandary; noun - condition of being doubtful or confused. The benefits and dangers of a nuclear plant leave us in a quandary.
15. raconteur; noun - a person skilled at telling stories or anecdotes. Comedians and masters of ceremonies must be consummate raconteurs.
SAT Vocabulary List 4-10
1. acclaim; noun - loud applause; approval. Jonas Salk won great acclaim for his medical discoveries.
2. blithe; adjective - happy and cheerful; gay.


 Lori’s blithe attitude toward her terrible predicament was bizarre indeed.
3. callous; adjective - unfeeling; insensitive. It was a surprise to see the tears flowing from someone we had considered to be callous.

4. deference; noun - great respect. Out of deference to my father, we never smoked in the house.

5. effervescent; adjective - lively; giving off bubbles. Because I do not enjoy carbonated drinks, I do not like the effervescent quality of ginger ale.

6. fervor; noun - intense emotion; great warmth of feeling. Alicia does her volunteer work with tremendous fervor.

7. garrulous; adjective - talkative. Nothing galvanizes me into leaving a beauty parlor as much as a garrulous hairdresser.

8. heretic; noun - a person who upholds religious doctrines contrary to the established beliefs of his church. Severely chastised for being a heretic, brother Vincent was asked to leave the monastery.

9. immutable; adjective - never changing. My father’s immutable optimism can be traced back to the pleasant atmosphere in my grandmother’s home.
10. lampoon; noun - strong, satirical writing, usually attacking or ridiculing someone. The college quarterly featured a lampoon of fraternity hazing.
11. meandering; verb - winding back and forth; rambling. Meandering through the crowded streets of a foreign city is my idea of a tourist’s delight.

12. officious; adjective - meddling; giving unnecessary or unwanted advice or services. Mr Klar’s officious manner helped him gain friends easily but lose them in short order.

13. parsimonious; adjective - too thrifty; stingy. Dickens’ Scrooge, before his metamorphosis, is regarded as the prototype of the parsimonious man.

14. querulous; adjective - peevish; faultfinding; expressing or suggestive of complaint. We tend to turn a deaf ear to querulous demands for attention.
15. rancor; noun - deep spite or malice; strong hate or bitter feeling. A forgiving heart will save you from the corrosive effects of rancor.


SAT Vocabulary 5-10
1.	Acquiesce; verb - to accept the conclusions or arrangements of others; to accede; to give consent by keeping silent. The president said that we will never acquiesce to the demands of the terrorists.
2.	bombastic; adjective - high-sounding; marked by use of language without much real meaning. The citizens failed to be aroused by their mayor’s bombastic speech.
3. capitulate; verb - to surrender; to cease resisting. Colonel Leeds was adamant in his decision not to capitulate under any terms.
4. deflate; verb - to let air out of; to reduce in size or importance. The boss’s criticism deflated John’s ego.
5. egregious; adjective - extraordinarily bad. An egregious bookkeeping error cost our company much.
6. fitful; adjective - spasmodic; intermittent. Monte’s fitful sleep tended to exacerbate his normal irritability.
7. gratuitous; adjective - freely given; unnecessary; uncalled-for. Hillary’s gratuitous suggestion was rejected by the other guests who blithely ignored it.
8. hierarchy; noun - organization by rank, class, or grade. In the company’s hierarchy, I’m the low man on the totem pole.
9. impartial; adjective - fair; just; showing no favoritism. An impartial attorney was asked to serve as a judge in the dispute.
10. lassitude; noun - state or feeling of being tired and listless; weariness. Lassitude comes from a feeling of hopelessness.
11. Meticulous; adjective - very careful about details; fussy. Sidney was meticulous about his clothing but quite sloppy about his room.
12. Opportunist; noun - one who takes advantage of any opportunity without regard for moral principles. The opportunist is so anxious to get ahead that he is ready to ignore the needs, feelings, and welfare of his fellow man.
13. Partisan; noun - on who strongly supports a party or cause; characteristic of a guerilla fighter. A partisan of the animal rights cause, John believes all use of animals for testing should be banned.
14. Quixotic; adjective - idealistic and utterly impractical. It is quixotic to think that we can ignore the environmental consequences of pollution.
15. Raze; verb - to tear down completely; to destroy. The corporation voted to raze the decaying structure and replace it with a modern skyscraper.

SAT Vocabulary List 6-10
1. Admonish; verb - to advise against something; to warn; to scold gently; to urge strongly. This is the last time I plan to admonish you about coming late to work.
2. Buffoon; noun - a clown; someone who amuses with tricks and jokes. After Bert had a few drinks, he became a willing buffoon at the party.
3. Capricious; adjective - changeable, fickle. Our weather is so capricious that it’s difficult to make weekend plans.
4. Delineate; verb - to describe in words; to sketch. When challenged to delineate Sam’s crass behavior, we were speechless.
5. Elucidate; verb - to make clear. Public relations experts were hired to elucidate the chairman’s position.
6. Flagrant; adjective - outrageous; glaringly offensive. After having been accused of a flagrant misuse of company funds, the treasurer resigned.
7. Guile; noun - crafty deceit; cunning.  Many clever figures from Greek mythology relied upon guile as an expedient.
8. Homogeneous; adjective - similar; uniform in nature.  The Shore Road finds that homogeneous grouping of pupils facilitates learning.
9. Impassive; 	adjective - without feelings or emotion; insensible. Good poker players are supposed to maintain impassive appearances.
10. latent; adjective - present but invisible or inactive; lying hidden and undeveloped.  Marilyn’s latent charm 	came to the fore after she got a few tactful pointers from her sister.
11. mitigate; verb - to make or to become milder or less severe; to moderate. The doctor assured Mrs Shiller that the medicine would mitigate her pain in a short time.
12. opulent; adjective - wealthy; abundant. The opulent family chose to spend money for the public benefit 	rather than for private indulgences.
13. paucity; noun - 	scarcity; smallness in number or amount. The paucity of rain in the Midwest will cause a serious food shortage in the months to come.
14. rebuff; verb -	 to refuse in a sharp or due way; to snub; to drive or beat back. It was sheer luck that the outnumbered patrol was able to rebuff the enemy attack.
15.  sagacious; 	adjective - very wise or shrewd. Glen turned to his father for advice, for he knew him to be sagacious and understanding.
SAT Vocabulary List 7-10
1. advocate; verb - to support; to be in favor of. Because the candidate may advocate many new social programs, he is being called a big spender.
2. carping; adjective - 	complaining. His carping criticism of the book was upsetting to the author.
3.	 demeanor; noun - behavior. When the twins adopted a conciliatory tone, Sal’s demeanor changed abruptly.
4. elusive	; adjective -	 hard to grasp; baffling. The 	philosopher’s main point was so elusive that we never did fully comprehend it.
5. fledgling; 	adjective - newly developed; little known. Luckily, the fledgling pilot’s egregious blunder was discovered before the plane departed.
6. gullible; adjective - 	easily deceived. The con man told a flagrant lie but the gullible investors swallowed	 it.
7. hyperbole; noun - an exaggerated statement used as a figure of speech for rhetorical effect. Ione uses hyperbole when galvanizing her sales force into a frenzy of selling.
8. imperturbable; adjective - not easily excited or disturbed. We couldn’t believe that Rafael would be that imperturbable in the midst of a riot.
9. laudable; adjective - worthy of praise. The board rewarded Ellen’s laudable achievements by promoting her to chief executive officer.
10. morose; adjective - gloomy; bad-tempered. Joan’s morose nature makes her always expect the worst.
11. overt; adjective - not hidden; open. Most observers took the senator’s speech as an overt bid for his renomination.
12. peerless; adjective - having no equal; better than the rest. Theresa’s peerless beauty was admired by all who saw her.
13. recalcitrant; adjective - refusing to obey or follow orders; unmanageably resistant. The mule is probably the most recalcitrant domesticated animal.
14. salutary; adjective - healthful; useful or helpful; remedial. Upon sagacious reflection, Simon realized that his parents’ rebuke though painful, was salutary.
15. taciturn; adjective - habitually untalkative; laconic; uncommunicative. Silas’s long years of solitude had made him a taciturn, brooding man unused even to the sound of his own voice.
SAT Vocabulary List 8-10
1. aesthetic; adjective - showing an appreciation of beauty in nature or art; artistic. Kyra’s aesthetic qualities were apparent in her early art work.
2. catalyst; noun	 - someone or something that brings about a change. Our articulate new principal was the catalyst for school reform.
3. denunciation; noun -	 expression of strong disapproval made openly or publicly. We were astonished by the tobacco heir’s denunciation of smoking.
4. embellish; verb - to decorate;	 to elaborate upon. For $5,000, the decorator promised to embellish our living room with continental touches.
5. forlorn; adjective - deserted; 		left alone and neglected; unhappy. Feeling forlorn and full of selfpity, Eddie was a danger to himself.
6. hypocritical; adjective - insincere; pretending to be what one is not. I found it hypocritical of the judge to be involved in an illegal activity.
7. implausible; adjective - not having 		the appearance of truth or reason. Only the most gullible member of our club would accept the implausible alibi.
8. lethargic; adjective - drowsy; dull; sluggish; 	indifferent. Eating a heavy meal tends to make me lethargic, which may explain why I become a couch potato after a big dinner.
9. perceptive; adjective - discerning; observant; 		sensitive. Having a perceptive nature, Jason was able to sense the child’s embarrassment even before she uttered a sound.
10. recluse; noun- a person who lives alone, away from others. Every neighborhood has its recluse about whom mysterious secrets are whispered.
11. sanction; noun - authorized approval or permission; support or encouragement; something that gives binding force to a law. There is no sanction for murder in human society.
12. tactless; adjective - not having or showing a sense of the right thing to do or say without causing anger or hurt feelings; without skill in dealing with people. Bringing up the matter of Grace’s losing her job was just about the most tactless way to start the conversation.


13. unassailable; adjective - undeniable; unquestionable; not able to attack. Brenda’s claim that she was exempt from taxation because she had earned no money was unassailable.
14. vacillate; verb - to say unsteadily; to totter; to waver; to fluctuate. Brian’s tendency to vacillate makes him a poor choice for president.
15. waive; verb - to dispense with; to relinquish; to postpone. The coach’s decision to waive the penalty may have cost us the game.
SAT Vocabulary List 9-10

1. affinity; noun - natural attraction to a person or liking for a thing; relation; connection. Harvey’s affinity for math led him to excel in our computer course.
2. catharsis;		 noun - an emotional purification or relief. The tragedy on stage brought about a catharsis among the spectators.
3. deprecate; verb - to       express strong disapproval of. If you continually deprecate Jeremy’s efforts, thereby deflating his selfconfidence, he may stop trying.
4. embroil; verb - to involve 	 in a quarrel. The rival party sought a way to embroil the government in a dispute over the economy.
5. formidable; adjective - hard to overcome; to be dreaded. Seemingly a mildmannered reporter, Clark Kent was actually	 the formidable Superman.
6. hypothetical; adjective - supposed; assumed. Saying that he has an aversion to hypothetical questions, the governor refused to reply.

7. inadvertent; adjective - not done on purpose; 	careless. I regarded the inadvertent comment as immaterial, but it proved to be significant.

8. levity; noun - lightness; lack of seriousness; fickleness	. Brad’s levity contrasted sharply with his roommate’s solemnity.
9. perfidy; noun- treachery; betrayal of 		trust. The double agent was obviously a man capable of acts of perfidy.

10. redundant; adjective - wordy; exceeding what is necessary or normal; lavish; overflowing. I wonder if authors who are called prolific are really merely redundant.
11. saturate; verb - to soak through and through; to fill completely. What we need now, said the farmer, is a heavy rain that will saturate the soil for a good six inches.
12. talon; noun - 	the claw of a bird of prey; a human finger or hand that looks or grasps like a claw; any object suggestive of a claw. The hawk’s talon closed on its prey, locking it in a viselike grip.
13. undermine; verb - to dig or to make a tunnel under; to wear away and weaken the support of; to injure or to weaken in a slow or sneaky way. The constant pressure of water in the subterranean channels can undermine the building’s foundation.
14. validate; verb- 	to declare or make legally sound; to substantiate; to verify. Floyd said he had an unimpeachable witness to validate his claims.
15. wanton; adjective - 		immoral; senseless; deliberately malicious; excessive. The partisans condemned the dictator’s wanton disregard for human rights.
Sat Vocabulary List 10 - 10
1. aggrandizement; noun - to increase in rank or wealth; 	growth in power. I attributed Paul’s aggressiveness to his need for aggrandizement.

2. caustic; adjective - stinging, biting. Caustic	 substances should be kept out of the reach of children.
3. derogatory; adjective- tending to lower in estimation; degrading. In a sharp denunciation, filled with derogatory criticism, the dean attacked the faculty rebels.
4. emulate; verb - to try to equal or surpass. When they were in high school, Dudley’s kid brothers always tried to emulate him.
5. fortuitous; adjective - 	happening by chance. My fortuitous discovery of the cache of valuable stamps enabled me to buy a motorcycle.
6. incipient; adjective - in an early stage. The rookie’s flagrant error spelled doom for his incipient career.
7. listless; adjective - indifferent; marked by a lack of energy or enthusiasm. We had expected him to be full of enthusiasm and were surprised by his listless attitude.
8. peripheral; adjective - 	external; incidental; tangential. Stick to the facts and don’t waste time on peripheral issues.
9. refurbish; verb - to freshen or polish again; to make like new. The agent promised to refurbish the apartment and put it in move in condition within one month.
10. savory; adjective - pleasing to the taste or smell; pleasant; morally attractive. Mother could concoct a most savory dish out of the simplest ingredients.
11. tangential; adjective - diverging or digressing; merely touching a subject, not dealing with it at all. The matter of Eleanor’s failure was mentioned at the dinner table only in a tangential way, but it hurt her deeply.
12. unequivocal;adjective - plain; very clear in meaning. Mandy was unequivocal in refusing to join the snobbish sorority.
13. Venerate; verb - to regard with respect and reverence; to honor. One way to venerate our parents is to emulate their deeds.
14. Whet; verb - to sharpen; to make stronger; to stimulate. Drinking soda in the summer tends to whet my thirst but fails to cool me off.
15. Zany; adjective - clownish; foolish; funny; absurd. In hindsight, Karen admitted her zany antics had no place in the classroom.
Vocabulary List 11-10
1.  	alienate; verb - to turn away the normal feelings of fondness toward anyone; to estrange.  Unwilling to alienate our old neighbors, we put up with their boisterous friends.
2.  Celestial; adjective - having to do with the heavens; divine. The new astronauts will be the celestial pioneers of the 21st century.
3. 	Desecrate; verb - to treat with disrespect. The young troublemakers planned to desecrate the cemetery by overturning headstones.
4.  Enervate; verb - to weaken; to lessen the strength of. Strenuous dieting will enervate most people.
5.  	furtive: adjective - done quickly and with stealth to avoid being noticed; secret. Cynthia's furtive gesture and cryptic remark did not go unnoticed.
6.  Incisive; adjective - keen; penetrating. Incisive criticism by the newspaper's film reviewer had led us to a renewal of the movie.
7. 	 lucid; adjective - easily understood; rational; clear; clear-minded.  The lecturer's lucid explanation left no questions unanswered.
8.  Peruse; verb - to study; to read . Margaret	 tried to peruse the letter when she thought she was not being observed.
9.  	rejuvenate; verb - to make young or fresh again.  The half time pep talk rejuvenated the team.
10.  scapegoat; noun - one taking  the blame for the mistake and crimes of others.  Billy maliciously made his brother the scapegoat for his setting fire to the gauge.
11.  tawdry; adjective - 		gaudy and cheap; vulgarly ornamental.  Isabella needed but one glance to rule out the wedding dress as too tawdry for her.
12.  unethical;  adjective - not conforming to approved standards of behavior, a socially accepted code, or professionally endorsed principles and practices.  It is no longer considered unethical for lawyers to advertise their services.
13.  verbose; adjective -		 wordy; tedious. 	Craig mistakenly believed that being urbane meant being verbose.
14.  wither; verb - to dry; to shrivel; to cause to lose courage or to be ashamed.  A prolonged drought could wither the crops and throw the economy into a tailspin.
15.  zealot; noun- a person who shows great enthusiasm for a cause.  A zealot for political reform will go to almost any lengths to further his cause.
SAT Vocabulary List 12-10
1. alleviate; verb - to make easier to	 endure; to relieve; to diminish. Nothing tends to alleviate my headaches better than simple aspirin.

2. Censure; verb - to blame; to criticize adversely. Congress agreed to censure the outspoken senator.
3. Despot; noun - monarch with unlimited power. My boss calls himself a benevolent despot, but we Question the validity of that adjective.
3.	Engender; verb - to cause; produce; bring into being. Those sneaky actions are sure to engender suspicion.
5. Incongruous; adjective - inappropriate; out of place. Seeing the little boy in a room filled with basketball giants struck me as totally incongruous.
6. Philistine; adjective - narrow-minded; smugly conventional. Philistine stubbornness should not prevent us from advancing ourselves intellectually.
7. Relegate; verb - to put in a less important position; to assign; to banish. The usual procedure is for the chairperson to relegate the work to special committees.



8. scoff; verb - to mock or jeer at; to make fun of. The fable of the fox and the grapes teaches that we tend to scoff at what we cannot attain.
9. Tedious; adjective - long or verbose and wearisome; tiresome; boring. I prefer the fastpaced games of football and basketball to baseball with its tedious stretches of waiting for something to happen.
10. ungainly; adjective - clumsy; awkward; hard to handle. Hulk Hogan’s sensitivity about his threadbare garments made him ungainly.
11. Viable; adjective - able to live or exist; practicable. Professor Fields agreed to accept a diary as a viable substitute for a short story.
12. Writhe; verb - to twist or squirm, as in pain; to suffer from shame or shyness. When the parents saw the child writhe in pain, they decided to rush him to the hospital.
13. Zenith; noun - the point in the sky directly above one; the highest point. At noon the sun is at its zenith.
14. Aloof;adjective - indifferent; unsympathetic; not interested; apart. She was adamant about remaining aloof from family problems.
15. chastise; verb - to criticize severely. If you chastise Jason, he immediately begins to weep.
SAT Vocabulary List 13-10
1. altruistic; adjective - thoughtful of the welfare of others. Arthur’s natural altruistic affinity endeared him to one and all.
2.  ambiguous; adjective - permitting more than one interpretation; not clearly defined. Listening to Archer’s ambiguous remarks, we weren’t sure whether he was on our side.
3. chimerical; adjective - absurd; wildly fanciful. Uncle Dave was chastised by Aunt Pearl for his chimerical proposal.
4. chronic; adjective - lasting a long time; constant. When dad’s cough became chronic we cajoled him into getting a chest xray.
5. deter; verb - to discourage; to keep someone from doing something. Nothing could deter Herman from achieving his ambition.
6. devious; adjective - not straightforward; lying; roundabout. Earl was upset because I refused to condone his devious ways.
7. enhance; verb - to add to; to make greater in value. The staff development program was designed to enhance the skills of the company’s executives.
8. enigma; noun - a puzzle; a baffling situation. Why a bright student should make such egregious errors is an enigma.
9. piety; noun - devotion and reverence, especially to god and family. Mrs Billings is noted for her piety and philanthropy.
10. relic; noun - a thing or part that remains from the past; something kept as sacred because it belonged to a saint. Minna kept a closetful of relics from her family in Kentucky.
11. scrupulous; adjective - very honest and conscientious; careful about claimed expense. The IRS expects each taxpayer to keep a scrupulous record of claimed expenses.
12.  temerity; noun - rashness; foolish or reckless boldness. Jack’s temerity in constantly correcting his superiors cost him his job.
13. unimpeachable; adjective - beyond doubt or reproach; unquestionable. Hector has always been known for his unimpeachable honesty.
14. vicarious; adjective - taking the place of another; experienced through sympathetic participation in the experience of another. The vicarious thrill we get from watching films falls short of the pleasure of firsthand experience
15. incontrovertible; adjective -  not able to be disputed or denied. It's incontrovertible that a settlement of the bitter strike is imminent.
SAT Vocabulary 14-10
 1. ambivalence; noun - condition of having conflicting attitudes. The manager’s ambivalence toward his star outfielder confused the sportswriters.
2. ameliorate; verb - to make better or more tolerable; to improve. In an effort to ameliorate the marriage relationship, the alcoholic agreed to a one year period of abstinence.
3. circumspect; adjective - careful. The lawyer struck us as aloof, but he was just being circumspect.
4. clairvoyant; adjective -having exceptional insight. The clairvoyant woman is occasionally used in murder cases to help discover the body.
5. devoid; adjective - entirely without; lacking. The devious Kingsley was devoid of moral principles.
6. diatribe; noun - a denunciation; bitter verbal attack. In a lengthy diatribe, the governor succeeded in deprecating her predecessor’s record.
7. ephemeral; adjective - lasting for only a short time. Newspapers may be regarded as ephemeral publications whereas books have greater permanence.
8. equanimity; noun - evenness of temper.

Facing every crisis with equanimity, the president inspired confidence among the people.
9. incorrigible; adjective - too firmly fixed to be reformed or changed. Harry’s incorrigible habit of smoking has impaired our relationship.
10. pique; verb - to hurt the feelings of or make resentful; to arouse; to excite. Raising taxes to help balance the budget will only pique the notional temper.
11. remorse; noun- a deep feeling of sorrow or guilt over a wrong one has done. Trudy felt remorse over having broken her promise.
12. scrutinize; verb - to look at very carefully; to inspect minutely. The umpire decided to scrutinize the ball after observing the strange movements of the pitcher.
13. tenet; noun - a principle, doctrine, or belief held as a truth by a group. Most people are not susceptible to deviation from the tenets they have been taught in their youth.
14. unobtrusive; adjective - not readily noticeable; inconspicuous. Mr Cottrell's unobtrusive demeanor was perfect front for his undercover work.
15. vilify; verb - to defame; to slander; to cause a person to become vile. The general refused to vilify his subordinates and accepted the onus of the defeat himself
SAT Vocabulary List 15-10
1. analogous; adjective - similar in certain qualities; comparable.  The auto mechanic said that the engine was analogous to the human heart. 2. animosity; noun - active dislike; ill will.  My animosity toward boxing is a result of my pacifist upbringing.
3. clandestine; adjective - secret. Diplomats are fond of clandestine meetings, away from prying reporters.4. clemency; noun - mercy; mildness.  The prisoner’s plea for clemency fell on deaf ears because of its diffuse nature.
5. didactic; adjective - intended to instruct. Our teacher was relentless in his affinity for didactic stories.6. diffuse; adjective - spread out; wordy.  The rambling diatribe was ineffective because of its diffuse nature. 7. equivocate; verb - to use ambiguous or unclear expressions in order to mislead; to be shifty; to hedge. One candidate is honest and blunt; the other prefers to equivocate on the controversial issues. 8. esoteric; adjective - understood by only a few; little known; obscure.  Dr Thorpe’s scholarship was so esoteric that it attracted little attention. 9. indefatigable; adjective - tireless. Edith's indefatigable efforts as a volunteer at the nursing home were extolled by the Sisterhood's president. 10. placate; verb - to soothe; to pacify. It is no small feat to placate an enemy without yielding ground.
11.  repudiate; verb - reject; to refuse to recognize, acknowledge or pay; to divorce or discard.  The	 expert’s testimony did not repudiate the collector's claim that the relic was authentic.
12.  sectarian;  adjective - pertaining to a group within a larger group that is limited by common beliefs or interests;  narrow-minded. Louis has a sectarian   perspective that is difficult to change.
13. tentative;  adjective-made,done, or proposed experimentally; not definite or final; indicating timidity, hesitancy, or uncertainty. Until all the evidence had been gathered, the police could only offer a tentative explanation for the explosion.
14. unscathed; adjective - undamaged; unharmed.  Ethan was delighted to have gotten through the first two interviews unscathed.
15. vindictive; adjective - revengeful; unforgiving; bitter; spiteful.  We were relieved that Emily was not vindictive about our having made her the butt of an uncouth joke.
Vocabulary List 16-10
 1. anonymity; noun- condition of being nameless or unknown. Some philanthropists crave the spotlight, but Edith preferred anonymity for her altruism. 2.  antagonism; noun - hostility, active opposition.  Teenagers sometimes show antagonism toward parental suggestions that they clean up their rooms.3. coalesce; verb- to grow together; to combine. If the competing groups could coalesce, they would control the election. 4.  colloquial; adjective - conversational; used in a informal speech or writing.  Jeremy was chastised by his English teacher for his colloquial compositions.5. diminution; noun- a lessening. The diminution in nightly air raids was welcomed by the Londoners. 6.  discerning; adjective  - keenly perceptive shrewd.  When it came to selecting the correct investments, Paul was quite discerning.7. eulogy; noun- high praise for a deceased person. When Reverend Foster delivered the eulogy, he embellished it with a few questionable stories. 8.  euphemism; noun - use of an indirect expression in place of one that is harsh.  Since I didn't want to hurt Debby's feelings, I searched for an appropriate euphemism.
9.  indigent; adjective - poverty stricken. Every Thanksgiving, the despot publicized his gift of turkeys to indigent families.
10.  placid; adjective - outwardly calm or composed; self satisfied; peaceful.  The medication made the hyperactive child not only placid but almost catatonic.
11.  repugnant; adjective - disgusting; loathsome; objectionable; incompatible.  Bigotry is repugnant to the tradition of our nation.
12.  sequester; verb - to hide or keep away from others; to withdraw into seclusion; to confiscate; to segregate. With no verdict in sight, the judge issued the order to sequester the jury for the night.
13.  terse; adjective - using only a few words but clear to the point; polished.  The terse statement read by the secretary of state was tantamount to the  rejection of the treaty.
14.  untenable; adjective - that which cannot be maintained or occupied ; incapable of being defended or held.  The lack of heat and hot water made the apartment untenable.
15.  virtuoso ; noun - one interested in the pursuit of knowledge; one with mastery skill or technique in any field. Even at an early age Carico showed the promise that would one day blossom into the talents of a piano virtuoso.
SAT Vocabulary List 17-10
1.    antithesis;  noun - direct opposite.  Surprisingly, Donna is the antithesis of her twin Debby.
2.    commiserate;  verb - to sympathize with; to feel sorrow for another's suffering.  His teammates commiserated with Hank after he had struck out with the bases loaded.
3.    disdain;  noun - a feeling of contempt for anything that is regarded as unworthy; scorn.  Jefferson High held Collier Tech's team in disdain.
4.    evanescent;  adjective - gradually disappearing; fleeting.  Max's concern was apparent as he showed only an evanescent interest in the new project.
5.    ingratiate;  verb - to make oneself acceptable.  I tired to ingratiate myself with Maurice but he was immutably set against my proposal.
6.    plagiarize;  verb - to take ideas or writings from someone else and present them as one's own; to use without giving credit.  Jordan knew better than to plagiarize a sonnet of Shakespeare, but he foolishly hoped his teacher would not recognize it.
7.    rescind;  verb - to cancel; to repeal; to set aside.  The people danced with joy when the government agreed to rescind the rule of apartheid.
8.    serene;  adjective - unruffled; tranquil; unclouded.  The serene morning sky gave no hint of the downpour that would later saturate our cabana.
9.    threadbare;  adjective - with the nap worn down so that the threads show; frayed or shabby; used so often that it is stale.  The salesperson's repertoire of threadbare jokes left us wishing she were more taciturn.
10.    urbane;  adjective - courteous suave; polished.  Mr Darcy's urbane manner immediately attracted Mrs Bennet's attentions.
11.    vitriolic;  adjective -  extremely biting or caustic; sharp and bitter.  Such vitriolic talk will not help to reconcile the feuding parties.
12.    apocryphal; adjective - of doubtful authenticity; counterfeit. Her apocryphal tears fooled no one.  13.    compatible; adjective - agreeing. When the couple realized they weren't compatible, they sought a divorce.
14.    dismantle; verb - to pull down; to take apart. Before the movers could take the pool table out, they had to dismantle it.
15.    exacerbate; verb - to make a situation worse; to irritate. One way to exacerbate their feelings of anger is to trivialize the quarrel.
Vocabulary List 18-10
    1. arduous;adjective - hard to do; strenuous. Climbing Mount Everest is an arduous undertaking.
2. articulate; adjective - able to put one’s thoughts into words easily and clearly.  Being articulate, Ellyn was able to do well on her job interviews.
3.  composure; noun - calmness. 
 When summoned to the principal's office, the youngster lost his composure.
4. conciliatory; adjective - tending to soothe or reconcile.  After a caustic debate, each contestant was seeking a conciliatory gesture.
5.  disparage; verb - to discredit; to belittle. In bizarre fashion, normal went out of her way to disparage everything her sister did.
6. disparity; noun - lack of equality; difference.  Birth certificates corroborated the wide disparity in the couple’s ages.
7.  exemplary; adjective - serving as a model. Matthew Alexander's stature was enhanced by the report of his exemplary conduct in nursery school.
8. expedient; adjective - useful; advantageous; based on self-interest.  Henry’s decisions are never expedient ones because he is genuinely altruistic.
9. innocuous; adjective - harmless. Who would have thought that my innocuous little remark would have embroiled us in a feud.

10.  platitude; noun - a thought or a remark that is dull, trite, flat, or weak. Mural's speech was so full of platitudes that you felt you were listening to a record. 11.  residual; adjective - left over, remaining. After the product had been distilled, there was a residual substance that baffled the chemist. 12. skeptical; adjective - not easily persuaded or convinced; doubting the fundamental doctrines of religion.  Shirley cast a skeptical look at her father when she was told she had to be home by 11 o’clock. 13. thwart; verb - to oppose directly; to baffle; to block; to frustrate.  The tight defense was able to thwart a touchdown in the last 30 seconds of play.
14. utopian; adjective - excellent, but existing only in fancy or theory; given to dreams or schemes of perfection.  The UN has not fulfilled the utopian dreams of its founders.
15. volatile; adjective - evaporating readily at normal temperatures; changeable; explosive; lighthearted; fleeting.  Alcohol and ether are highly volatile substances.
SAT Vocabulary List 19-10
1. assuage; verb - to calm or soothe; to satisfy. Mother hastened to the bedroom to assuage Beth's fears.
2. concise; adjective - saying much in few words; brief but full of meaning.  Ray has the envious reputation of being concise and to the point in everything he writes.
3. disperse; verb - to send off in different locations. When the tear gas is hurled, the crowd will disperse.
4. expedite; verb - to make easy and quick; to speed up.  In order to expedite matters we hired three additional workers.
5. inscrutable; adjective - so mysterious that it cannot be understood. We looked to Dora for a positive reactions, but her face was inscrutable.
6. pompous; adjective - self-important; stately; magnificent; excessively ornate.  The pompous doorman refused to admit the disheveled woman.
7. resilient; adjective - getting back strength or spirits quickly; spinging back into shape or position. Blanca was so resilient that she was back on the field two weeks after the accident.
8. sobriety; noun - seriousness, gravity, or solemnity; absence of alcoholic intoxication.  The extreme sobriety of five year old veribuca indicated a not very salutary sign of her development.
9. tirade; noun - a long, angry, or scolding speech; a harangue.  With the ferocity of a wild bird sinking its talons into its prey, the senator lambasted his opponent in a tirade that left no fault unexposed, no weakness unexploited.
10. voluminous; adjective - large, bulky; enough to fill volumes.  Dickens’ voluminous writings fill many library shelves.
11. atrophy; verb - to waste away.  Failure to exercise your muscles may cause them to atrophy.
12. condone; verb - to forgive or overlook.  I can commiserate with you, but I find it hard to condone the action you took.
13. disposition; noun - nature; tendency.  The melancholy foreman had disdain for any worker with a cherry disposition.
14. expunge; verb - to erase; to remove completely. Miss Porter promised to expunge the bad conduct notation from Danielle’s report card if she improved conspicuously.
15. insipid; adjective - lacking interest or spirit.  In a devastatingly incisive review, one critic disparaged the novel as insipid and boring.

SAT Vocabulary List 20 - 10
1. augment; verb - to increase or enlarge; to become greater in size.  If we augment our arms stockpile, our enemies will do the same. 2. conspicuous; adjective - clearly visible; remarkable. With her green punk hairdo, Tina was the most conspicuous guest at the party.
3.  dissipated; adjective - given to indulging excessively in sensual pleasures.  As the weeks went by, the portrait slowly took on a dissipated look while the models face remained cryptically youthful. 4.  extol; verb - to praise highly. It's my intention to extol Bonnie's successful fund raising efforts at our next club meeting.
5.  insurgent; noun - one who rises in revolt.  Government representation questioned the insurgent sharply but he remained silently and impassive.
6.  ponderous; adjective - very heavy; bulky; labored and dull or tiresome.  Modern science has not yet solved the mystery of how the Aztecs were able to lift ponderous stones with their meager tools. 7.  respite; noun - a temporary cessation or postponement, usually of something disagreeable; interval of rest. The union leader announced, We are too close to victory to take a respite from our labors.
8.  solemn; adjective - observed or done according to ritual or tradition; formal; serious or earnest; arousing   feelings of awe; very impressive. Before giving testimony in court, a witness is a required to take a solemn oath that he or she will tell the whole truth.
9.  trepidation; noun - a trembling; apprehension; a state of alarm and dread.  The memory of Black Monday has filled the investors with trepidation about risking more of their money in the stock market.
10. voracious; adjective - ravenous; greedy; gluttonous. Since her junior year, Susan has been a voracious worker.


11. austere; adjective - stern in manner or appearance; strict in morals. Their household, governed by an austere father, was a humorless and unhappy place.
12. copious; adjective - abundant. Professor Highet gave us copious notes throughout his course on Dante.


13. distraught; adjective - in a state of mental conflict and confusion; distracted. Ophelia's distraught brother flung himself into her grave and uttered a bombastic challenge to Hamlet.
14. intemperate; adjective - lacking in self-control. Intemperate at the dinner table, Hudson's weight ballooned to 300 pounds.

15. pragmatic; adjective - practical; opinionated; concerned with actual practice rather than with theory or speculation. The public opinion poll has been accepted as a pragmatic way of determining the thinking of the people at a given point in time.
